# Reviews analysis

This is a sample project developed in python and heroku. It uses Flask for html rendering and bokeh for interactive plots. The word cloud is generated by the javascript library [JQCloud](https://github.com/lucaong/jQCloud) and JQuerry. It calculates most significant words in all the product reviews for a particular type. The sample data is amazon product reviews for 20 tablets downloaded from [data](http://sifaka.cs.uiuc.edu/~wang296/Data/LARA/Amazon/). hosted at [http://fast-shelf-85324.herokuapp.com/](http://fast-shelf-85324.herokuapp.com/)
## Word Cloud

Generates a word cloud from the amazon reviews for the tablets product category. Upon clicking `Generate WC`, the app reads a json file containing the data, cleans up the reviews, removes common words and calculates ranks based on frequency. The results for top 30 words are displayed using JQCloud. Note that it may take a while. However, a pre-calculated image can be displayed by clicking `Show WC`.

Not surpricingly, the most important quality for tablets is "app".

## Time evolution

For specific product (in this case Apple iPad), the frequency of few of the significant words can be plotted as a function of the time, to see if their important changes over time. In this case, the code calculates word frequencies and corresponding times for every review, occurance of words at various times and sorts the results. It is then plotted using bokeh library. Plots for "app", "price" and "screen" can be selected below.

One can see that "app" was an important property when iPad was launched, but has declined over time. However, "price" and "screen" remain more or less significant.
